One more update to the Web OTP article (#3851)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/web-otp/index.md

  (i.e. the same profile in which you receive SMS messages).
{% endAside %}

Using the Web OTP API consists of three parts:

* A properly annotated `<input>` tag
* JavaScript in your web app

> * Formatted message text sent via SMS. I'll cover the `<input>` tag first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Formatted message text sent via SMS. 

I'll cover the `<input>` tag first.
```

## Annotate an `<input>` tag

Web OTP itself works without any HTML annotation, but for cross-browser
compatibility, I highly recommend that you add `autocomplete="one-time-code"` to

> the `<input>` tag you expect the user entering an OTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `<input>` tag where you expect the user entering an OTP.
```

> This allows Safari 14 or later to suggest the user to autofill the `<input>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows Safari 14 or later to suggest that the user to autofill the `<input>`
```

field with an OTP when they receive an SMS with the format described in [Format
the SMS message](#format) even though it doesn't support Web OTP.

{% Label %}
HTML
{% endLabel %}

```html
<form>
  <input autocomplete="one-time-code" required/>
  <input type="submit">
</form>
```

## Use the Web OTP API

> Because Web OTP is simple, just copying and pasting following code will do the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Web OTP is simple, just copying and pasting the following code will do the
```

> job, but lets walk through what's happening in details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
job. I'll walk you through what's happening anyway.
```

The Web OTP API requires a secure origin (HTTPS).
{% endAside %}

{% Aside 'success' %}

> Unless you'd like a highly customised approach, we recommend to use [a web
> component](#web-components) approach since it's mostly just a copy and paste. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you want to highly customize the experience, [a web
component](#web-components) approach is recommended because it's mostly just a
copy and paste.
```

one property: `transport`, whose value must be an array with the string `'sms'`.

```js
navigator.credentials.get({
  otp: { transport:['sms'] }
}).then(otp => {
  …
```

This triggers the browser's permission flow when an SMS message arrives. If permission is
granted, the returned promise resolves with an `OTPCredential` object.

{% Label %}
Content of obtained `OTPCredential` object
{% endLabel %}

```json
{
  code: "123456" // Obtained OTP
  type: "otp"  // `type` is always "otp"
}
```

> Next, pass the OTP value to an `input` field. Annotating the field with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, pass the OTP value to an `<input>` field. Annotating the field with
```

Reviewer: Unless this isn't an element.

`autocomplete="one-time-code"` is highly recommended for browser
compatibilities. You may optionally submit the form on behalf of the user.

```js/3-4
navigator.credentials.get({
  otp: { transport:['sms'] }
}).then(otp => {
  const input = document.querySelector('input[autocomplete="one-time-code"]');
  input.value = otp.code;
}).catch(err => {
  console.error(err);
});
```

### Aborting the message {: #aborting }

To set a timeout that cancels the `get()` call, pass an `AbortController`
instance in the [`options`
object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#Parameters).

```js/0-3,7
const abortController = new AbortController();
let timer = setTimeout(() => {
  abortController.abort();
}, 120 * 1000); // Change the duration based on your needs

navigator.credentials.get({
  otp: { transport:['sms'] },
  signal: abortController.signal
}).then(otp => {
  clearTimeout(timer);
  const input = document.querySelector('input[autocomplete="one-time-code"]');
  input.value = otp.code;
}).catch(err => {
  clearTimeout(timer);
  console.error(err);
});
```

## Format the SMS message {: #format }

> The API itself should look simple enough, but a critical part is to
> format your SMS text message according to a specific convention. The message has
> to be sent after `navigator.credentials.get()` is called and must comply with the
> formatting convention.
> 
> The SMS message must be received on the device where `navigator.credentials.get()`
> was called.
> 
> The message must adhere to the following formatting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API itself should look simple enough, but there are a few things you should
know before using it. The message must be sent after
`navigator.credentials.get()` and it must be received on the device where
`get()` was called. Finally, the message must adhere to the following
formatting:
```

}
```

Next, pass the OTP value to the `<input>` field. Submitting the form directly

> will eliminate one more step for the user to tap a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will eliminate the step requiring the user to tap a button.
```

{% Label %}
JavaScript
{% endLabel %}

```js/5-6
    …
    navigator.credentials.get({
      otp: { transport:['sms'] }
      …
    }).then(otp => {
      input.value = otp.code;
      if (form) form.submit();
    }).catch(err => {
      console.error(err);
    });
    …
```

### Aborting the message {: #aborting }

> In case the user manually enters an OTP and submit the form, you can cancel the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the user manually enters an OTP and submits the form, you can cancel the
```

well.

```js
const input = document.querySelector('input[is="web-otp"]');
input.addEventListener('autocomplete', e => {
  this.form.submit();
});
```

## Demos

Try various messages with the demo:
[https://web-otp.glitch.me](https://web-otp.glitch.me)

You may also fork it and create your version:
[https://glitch.com/edit/#!/web-otp](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/web-otp).

{% Glitch {
  id: 'web-otp',
  path: 'views/index.html',
  previewSize: 0,
  allow: []
} %}

## FAQ

### Where do I report bugs in Chrome's implementation?

Did you find a bug with Chrome's implementation?

* File a bug at
  [https://new.crbug.com](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?components=Blink%3ESMS).
  Include as much detail as you can, simple instructions for reproducing, and
  set **Components** to `Blink>WebOTP`.

### How can I help this feature?

Are you planning to use the Web OTP API? Your public support helps us prioritize
features, and shows other browser vendors how critical it is to support them.
Send a Tweet to [@ChromiumDev](https://twitter.com/chromiumdev) with
`#webotp` and let us know where and how you're using it.

> ### What are the differences from SMS Receiver API? {: #differences }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What are the differences with the SMS Receiver API? {: #differences }
```
